abst:
Mycotourism, also known as Mushroom foraging, is the practice of collecting wild mushrooms for consumption or recreational use. However, this hobby comes with some risk from the uncertainty when distinguishing the difference between poisonous and edible mushrooms. This is where data driven classification comes into play; With the use of the UCI Mushroom Dataset, which contains roughly eight thousand instance of mushrooms while recording 22 categorical features, one can make use of machine learning algorithms such as Naive Bayes, Linear Regression, and Logistic Regression to identify which mushrooms are edible and poisonous. The process to implement these algorithms encompass data cleaning, categorical feature hot-encoding, dataset partitioning, and model training. TODO: ATTACH RESUTLS

INTRO:
Mycotourism, a popular activity all around the world in countries like Spain, Poland, the Netherlands, and many more. Originally used for survival, mycotourism has developed into a popular hobby by many recreationally. Keeping in mind the overhead or risk when participating, one can become extremely ill with just one misidentification. 

By capitalizing existing machine learning algorithms such as Naive Bayes, Linear Regression, and Logistic Regression one can aid in a mushroom edibility classification. Features such as cap color, odor, and habitat to apply the various supervised machine learning algorithms for binary classification. Additionally, one can compare each algorithm to one another to determine effectiveness on the dataset. 

The problem being investigated can be formally defined as: Given a dataset consisting of categorical mushroom attributes with a tag for edibility, is it possible to train a machine learning model to identify whether or not a mushroom is edible? This problem consists of a binary classification that is poisonous or edible based on given categorical attributes. To accomplish this we use the UCI Mushroom dataset that is presented as a csv. Clean the data by removing incomplete entries and hot-encoding columns accordingly. Doing this minimalizes error and increases the model's reliablilty because it ensures a complete and high quality dataset. Then each model was trained on a partitioned portion of the dataset and evaluated on the other.

Motivation:
The motivation for this investigation stems from public health and data science perspectives. Just alone in the USA there are over 7,000 cases of poisoning from mushrooms a year. The majority of these incidences are due to misidentification of mushrooms. The silver lining is that most these incidents aren't fatal but there are a couple couple lives taken among the statistics. Mushroom foraging has typically been a hobby typically passed through social learning, person to person. Given the state of the data available and machine learning algorithms, it is assumed that machine learning cannot replace the knowledge held by hobbyists and experts. Therefore it would be better to supplement the identification of edibility. From the data science perspective this type of categorical data is ideal for a machine learning model. Therefore its a great opportunity to compare different models doing the same task to emphasize strengths and weaknesses between one another.

